== The Generations of 4chan ==

Nowadays, it's a common thing to hear, &quot;I want neo-/v/ to leave, modern /co/ is shit, /b/ was good once&quot;. However, their predecessors have repeated these phrases since day one.

Except for &quot;The Nameless&quot; (the first users of 4chan in 2003), all generations of 4channers will had their forerunners telling them they are the cancer that killed their favourite boards. If we look all the time such things have been said, we can form a small conclusion: 4chan sports a liquid, perpetually evolving culture. It holds no real solid traditions, it's not designed to. 

The ephemerality, the anonymity and the lack of registration give no real form of preservation when it comes to a community's culture. In such way it's pointless to claim a board should behave in any form since (moot's orders excluded) there no real specific way for them to behave. 

A board's dominant traditions are defined by its current population, and given that 4chan exists mostly as a time killer, people with certain traditions eventually leave when they find something more interesting or get bored. While many users return eventually, generations past fade too quickly to assimilate an incoming, ever increasing userbase. Often times, it is the old userbase that melds into the culture of the new userbase reviving history in a new context.

Here's a summary of what generations are perceived by most 4chan users. This list mainly applies mostly to 4channers that browsed /b/, the least moderated boards and a general rundown of the 4chan userbase. Other boards began to develop radically different subcultures by 2008-2010.

== (2003 – 2004) – 名無し (The Nameless) ==

4chan's original population, mostly composed of expats from SA's ADTRW, FYAD boards and #RaspberryHeaven. They mostly used 4chan as an image dump, and usually for silly jokes. A tendency for transgression and stupidity, two things heavily shunned by the ban happy SA community, were always present on the board.

Often, a 4channer would just dump images on a thread, and the coding was so flunky that sometimes images were managed to be uploaded after another image was posted and uploaded. There wasn't much for discussion on the boards, people would post a joke or a funny pic and it usually got around 5 posts. Harsh and dissenting opinions were swiftly banned, since, after all, 4chan's userbase did come from Something Awful. In some boards, discussion was banned entirely, and looked not unlike the content-oriented 18+ boards on modern 4chan.

The community was strongly aligned to the discussion of Japanese Anime, and had a significant population of lurkers of Japanese origin. Threads were understood in the lens of Otaku textboard culture, and held a bizarre sense of humor, inherited from Futaba Channel and 2channel. 

Many of these users abandoned 4chan as it became ever more infamous and gore ridden. But their legacy lived on for a decade via the first puzzling 4chan banners, [official 4chan comics](http://archives.bibanon.org/4chan/comics/index.html) and [flash archive](https://www.4chan.org/flash). This unique environment is still preserved in the English-language textboards.

=== (2005 – 2006) – The Legion / The Oldfags ===

The definitive 4chan user, this new breed of 4channer lived for the lulz. One of their most characteristic traits was a never ending curiosity for the morbid. The newly named /b/tards would travel the corners of the Internet looking for strange, bizarre things such as the now infamous BAAAWWWW diaper furry comic to show to their peers. Many weird crews settled on the site, including the very creator of that comic and a handful of stalkers that discovered Cracky-Chan and still stalk her to this day.

Oldfags usually posted and briefly discussed a topic, and whenever the discussion was finished and someone wanted to change a topic, they would say &quot;this is now an X thread&quot; and began to dump images. There were big fans of mega threads and roleplaying, such as playing along in Epic Fail Guy threads or setting huge things like the pickle surprise post. They usually came with a single OP post – &quot;Let's shoop this guy's face into pictures of X&quot;, such threads, fed by sheer force of boredom, usually bore tons of new content. Their knack for shooping would be noticeable on every big meme or event that happened. For every original image there would be three or four slightly retouched variants.

They also had a prominent troll mentality. Whenever they found anyone that could easily fall for troll bait, they would milk them to no end. The first recorded raid was the Bibliocality raid, which ended up with the forums permanently closed. 4channers had a characteristic appreciation of camwhores, or anything with a vagina and a pretty face.

They were also heavy on traditions, being the first give the suffix –chan to any camwhore, and giving each day of the week having a particular theme, including things like Caturday, Warhammer Wednesday (Which would one of the motivations for the creation of /tg/), Soviet Sunday, etc.

=== (2007 – 2009) – The Cancer / The Newfags ===

Borne of Chanology and the newfag summer, this generation was characterized by talking much and achieving little. Users spent most of the time arguing between each other, trolling, spamming copypasta and whenever the topic turned towards /b/'s diminishing quality, passing the blame to each other. Discussion about all topics abounded, usually filled with lies and trolling. They spent a lot of time arguing, fighting and at the same time idolizing the oldfags, and while they tried to do the same things they did, their sheer laziness and tendency to take raids and OC for granted made them accomplish little.

They were mostly known for cheap trolling attempts, copypasta spamming (Which was probably the most produced OC of the era), zerg rushes instead of raids and considering the mods a force that could not get in their way. One of the things people of 2007 created the most was creepypasta, which got a big following like Warhammer Wednesday before had, and eventually ended up with the creation of /x/ - Paranormal.

These users were usually very strange IRL – Just look at any videos on Youtube like the /b/oston fail party or the Otakon meets up (Sadly, what was probably the best example of the average /b/tard during these days, a meet up from Otakon 2008, was deleted). One of the biggest problems with them was their affinity for illegality and child pornography – It wasn't uncommon to find such threads at least once per day, with people casually discussing as it was just another shitting dicknipples. One of the bad things is that they completely assimilated the concept of interboard raiding, which they usually did whenever /b/ was down.

In contrast, with the rise of Chanology, many users though of 4chan and imageboard in general as a bastion of good, a place where they could fight things like Scientology. This people was commonly referred to as raidfags, and later moralfags. They disappeared as soon as Chanology ended, since image boards were too hostile for them.

=== 2010 – 2011 – The Vandals / The -fags === 

An underdog generation if there was any, usually considered part of the newfag wave (hence the lack of any particular prefix). It was a generation whose opinions were quite malleable.

They mostly tagged along to whatever crazy shenanigans others were up to. People from then usually found a site or got an idea and immediately posted it on /b/. /b/tards would try and see what they could do. Mostly hit or miss, unlike their hated antecessors they didn't particularly care or complain about failure. In cue with their habit of tagging along, /b/tards were fond of rolling threads, where they would decide what to do or how to call a new meme with whatever was posted on a determinate number. Threads like fap roulette threads, You laugh You Lose, EFG and rage threads where found in abundance. Eventually such threads would begin to saturate the board and came to be shunned by the userbase, but there seemed to be no way to stop it.

This people's greatest achievements was the Youtube Porn Day, making moot Time's Person of the Year and the Jessi Slaughter Saga. They also got a handful of memorable CSS hacks, such as the PUDDI PUDDI invasion and Souljaquest.mp3.

=== 2012 – Present – The Casuals / The Normalfags ===

The present generation of 4chan. Casuals look and act like what you would expect from an average teenager and young adult in a developed country. This generation hails from a pool of NORPs, people not in touch with Internet culture (the base of the Internet food chain). But looks can be deceiving: "Casual", and you'd find that they're just as tied to 4chan as the others were. 

They like to talk and share personal experiences, such as bizarre events in their life and sexual conquests and exploits, and green text stories are probably their biggest contribution as of yet. What they have in personal experience they lack in humour, as many of them actively reject the older generation's affinity for black comedy, fake racism and transgression. They lash out against anything openly hostile or dark, labelling it as edgy. 

The Casuals have a big tendency to jump in and give strong opinions about something without actually bothering to check their facts. The sheer size of this userbase creates a pool of talented coders and photoshoppers available just by rule of probability.

Unlike the other generations, which were mostly confined to the less moderated boards and /b/, while the other boards had their own userbase, The Casuals have spread over the entirety of 4chan, leaving very few boards untouched. 
