4chan's Halcyon Days begin to fade with moot's dismissal of admin and moderators W.T. Snacks and Shii, and the rise of the underaged Allyson to mod status. This is seen by many anons as a harbinger of impending doom. And doom seemed imminent for all; with increasing immigration, /b/ had begun to experience sharp cultural changes that left long time users bewildered and newfags unassimilated. It began to take more and more spotlight from the rest of the boards, surpassing them in traffic, userbase and content until the majority of the site browsed /b/ alone. Its traffic doubled its follow up boards, a trend that would continue until the end of the decade.

== The Mootocracy ==

''(Oct 2005 – Aug 22 2006)''

{{Quote box
 |title = Content Aggregators
 |quote  = Back during the early days of web 2.0, content aggregators were mostly unheard of, since the internet just came out from the period were it was all small clusters of isolated communities. During those days it was common to see various communities bickering because another one stole their content. EbaumsWorld was the first site to do it en masse and without regard of consequences, embedding code on the frontpage that stole bandwidth from SA and 4chan, which prompted unprecedented retaliation from most of the big players of the era (and a young 4chan tagging along). A Something Awful user even made a flash song about it.
 |width = 30%
 |align = right
 |salign = right
 |class = letterhead
 |border = none
}}

During this era, the inexperienced 4chan community gets it's first taste of Internet warfare in a coalition attack against ''EbaumsWorld'' for its plagiarism and malicious tendencies. Although it was a fairly reactive community, the EbaumsWorld raid gave birth to a sort of organized raid culture, with raids soon becoming commonplace on /b/. 

Later, in the community, a /b/tard made a thread telling how he was banned from the forum Bibliocality.com, a hardcore Christian forum. Some /b/tards though it would be funny to flood the forum, and the idea took on. Soon Bibliocality was nothing but spam and insults, with infamous tripfag Soviet_Russia leading the charge. The Admin overreacted and locked down the forums, and the site eventually died. The thread was popular enough to merit the birth of a tradition that would be performed with bolder and bolder antics with each passing month. 

Such attacks culminated in a massive, quasi-coordinated raid to Habbo hotel, known as The Great Habbo Hotel Invasion of July 2006, giving birth to the Nigra meme, a common afro and suit attire that /b/tards and related 4channers would try to use when playing online games. School shooting plans and stadium bombings are posted thanks to the sense of anonymity, as in such a particular event, an user was arrested once his post was reported to the police, the ensuing drama and news reports gave birth to the "DON'T MESS WITH FOOTBALL"phrase.

{{Quote box
 |title = "/b/ was never good"
 |quote  =  By 2006, many users thought back to a romanticized /b/ where all content was original, funny, and fresh. This belief is far from the truth, but, lacking memory, the cynical ideal quickly became a major tenet of 4chan culture. Though it was true that smaller communities were closer knit and more cohesive, "low" quality image and content during 2004 to 2006 had always been welcomed, cherished, and remixed by the members of the community, therefore becoming quality (Or should I say QUALITY) 4chan content. Later on, when mass waves of users flowed in, prejudice against newfags grew when incoming users often misinterpreted the premise of a meme.
 |width = 30%
 |align = right
 |salign = right
 |class = letterhead
 |border=none
}}

The massive increase of threads proportionally increased the rate of thread deletion. Although the ratio of good to bad content changed little, the sheer magnitude of forgettable, rehashed content (What we now know as templates and macros) created class conflict between ex-SA "ldfags"and unskilled newfags. It was during this period that 4chan and /b/ became known as the assholes of the Internet. /b/ went through major cultural changes: Though at its core it was still about silliness and black comedy, its aggressiveness began to outshine everything else. /b/ attained an attack dog mentality, seeking prey to destroy, to do whatever they thought was lulzly at the time. Persecution of amusement at the detriment of everybody they deemed wanting became the biggest hobby of /b/.

{{Quote box
 |title = Strange Subcultures
 |quote  = Colourful groups were always around, (evidenced by the early /c/ - Cute/Male (back then being not safe for work), /l/ - Lolicon, /g/ - Guro and /d/ - Hentai/alternative boards), and the random furry forcing his art on everyone. 4chan would eventually diversify beyond anime. As the Touhou doujin subculture grew day by day, /a/ users were fed up, and called on moot to oust them. Moot thus created /jp/ - Japanese Culture, on a day henceforth known as /a/-day.
 |width = 30%
 |align = right
 |salign = right
 |class = letterhead
 |border=none
}}

/b/'s raid culture began to shine around mid-2006. The board began a series of organized raids against many sites, included but not limited to: Fandom (most notoriously ZeldaUniverse), Christian, Pro-Ana, and sites for people with disabilities. June saw the total destruction of the Zelda Guide Forums and Naruto-kun.com. Any camwhores that came to the board's attention would be trolled to tears. On July /b/ staged the great Habbo raid of July 2006, saturating Habbo Hotel with nigras, black avatars with a two piece black suit, black shoes and an Afro, because of perceived racism on part of the mods. On august 16 Canadian Tom Green gets raided at his own talk show, which would become a sort of tradition.

With an ever increasing growth, and a series of continuous raids to different people, like the Hal Turner and Tom Green raids, 4chan ended up with a Fox News coverage (and a minor G4 one) of Anonymous. With Fox News being Fox News, the report was deeply inaccurate and filled with sensationalism. The report coined the term ''"Hackers on Steroids"'' and Internet Hate Machine, gleefully adopted by /b/, among many other memes.

== The Fursecution ===

4chan's nominal anonymity begins to attract a bunch of colorful groups to 4chan, such as Touhou fans, stalkers, guro lovers, pedophiles, and worst of all, Furries . Usually, these groups are granted their own containment boards.

Curiously, out of all the insane fandoms on 4chan, Furries have faced universal hatred. During the early days of the internet, the two core websites, SA and (possibly) Fark, began a crusade against the furry fandom in all its forms. During one memorable moment, Lowtax crated a furry board, waited for it to be filled with furry goons, and permabanned them all. This attitude eventually shaped internet culture, where it became the norm to hate on furries, and the furry fandom itself, building a constant cycle of paranoia and "fursecution". Inspired by this punitive action, Moot once created a /fur/ board on April Fool’s day 2005, and banned all the users who posted there for a month.

On August 22, a splinter group of /b/tards went completely nuts and completely obliterated three sites from the face of earth, prompting anons to make threads urging /b/ to start a crusade against faggotry, and /b/ planned its Magnum Opus: A series of detailed, coordinated raids against the entire furry fandom, including sites like WikiFur, Furaffinity, fchan and various forums. 

However, the next day proved to be somewhat different than planned.
