== The Boxxy Civil War ==

''(2009)''

On January 7, 2009, a year-old video from a strangely tantalizing teenager named Boxxy came to the full attention of /b/, which in turn incited a major civil war between lovers and detractors. Normal users, tired of both sides, took down the entire site in a major DDoS and mods began to ban all Boxxy-related posts. Not long after a group of namefags calling themselves the "Center for Boxxy Control and Restriction" (CBCR) hacked into Boxxy's account and held her IRL information hostage. Their work was undermined by their radical tendencies, and support eventually broke down.

The year is characterized by the rise of Reddit, a major news and content aggregator that rose to power after the Digg Revolt, when a revamped hub led to an exodus from the site. Reddit's mainstream popularity and strong cultural influence from 4chan created a unique relationship between the two.

Culturally, 4chan was a shadow of its former self. Many things /b/tards proposed themselves to achieve ended up failing miserably. /b/'s content began to change towards inane threads, like porn dumps and camwhores. Many old users, complaining about the site's idiotic tendencies, migrated towards the ascending Reddit, remaining there until the rise of SRS. A notable exception was Time's Most Influential Person of the Year raid, where hackers and /b/tards not only made moot the most voted name, but also arranged the runner ups to spell "Marblecake also the game", a shootout to the Youtube Porn day. moot attended to the event, spawning even more memes.