== The Homecoming ==

''(Sept 2009 – Jun 2011)'' 

In a throwback to the legacy of 4chan (or more likely, the return of /i/nsurgents after the collapse of most of their websites), 4chan sees somewhat of a renaissance after the past few tumultuous years. This was a time where /b/ reclaimed some of its original luster, mainly during 2010. 

A new generation of /b/tards, neither the uncaring sociopaths of 2006 nor the legionaires of 2008, rekindled with one of 4chan's original attitudes – That of the silly, uncaring prankster. /b/ would go around finding things they could exploit and make jokes of. They would find their way in and mess with a site's layout or hijack an Internet poll and put outrageous results. They would sometimes spam forced memes that ultimately would become accepted by the community and generally became a funnier crowd to be around. This didn't mean 4chan would stop being the shithole of the Internet, or that /b/ would stop being the shithole of 4chan, because for a site with such reputation it takes a long time to clean its name. If it ever wants to.

=== Anonymous and the Rise of Hacktivism ===

(Sept 2009 – Apr 2010)

With /b/ delighting in its own decadence, there was little actual action or reaction from the community. The last major campaign on the board was February 2010's Operation Titstorm, the culmination of a series of bad vibes between the Internet and the Australian government that attempts to censor it, taking its origins from Operation Didgeridie.

From then on, almost all actions performed against any organization or government that attempted against free speech, piracy or relevant matter would be opposed by groups that called themselves "Anonymous". With Operation Payback 4chan would slowly fade from being the source of most Internet warfare, with various groups taking the spotlight. Since 4chan was constantly filled with spam, uninteresting threads, and trolls, the new groups migrated to their own communities to continue their campaigns. The new hacktivists, "Anonymous", would proceed to strike government sites, Visa, MasterCard and others in retaliation for censorship attempts during Operation Payback and WikiLeaks's loss of funding during Operation Avenge Assange. 

=== Punitive Expedition against Jessi Slaughter ===

4chan's users weren't inactive, however, as they proved they still got it in 2009 by filling Youtube with porn, selecting Moot as TIME's Person of the Year, and rigging that poll to spell "marblecake also the game"

2010 proved to be interesting when /b/ raided Jessi Slaughter, an underage camwhore with a serious case of unwarranted self-importance, until her own father discovered her and threw a shitstorm over it, sparking the infamous phrases YOU DUN GOOFED and CONSEQUENCES WILL NEVER BE THE SAME. The situation escalated to the point where Jessi and his family were interviewed at Good Morning America! Expecting a surge of NORP viewers on the site, /b/'s CSS was modified to show a more safe for work front page, and everyone was exited since most raiders where /b/tards.

=== New Generations ===

''(May 2010 – Jul 2011)''

This period marks as a turning point in 4chan culture. /b/ 2007 attitudes of hostility, pointlessness and cancer, slowly faded from user fatigue. The other boards, smaller in size compared to the giant began to see a steady amount of growth in terms of userbase. This would make a trend that would continue for a few years, with the rest of the site slowly gaining importance as /b/'s presence faded from the face of the Internet, while it did not regain quality, /b/tards began to form a new "whatever" culture, where the main tenet was that nothing really mattered, save for a few injokes.

4chan also begins to react against the new generation of Internet sites like Tumblr, with whom it originally shared some likeness before the site was became the breeding ground for insane SJWs, and Reddit, where /b/ perceived something very, very wrong was growing on that site.

2011 was a rather interesting year for the Internet as a whole. SOPA, PIPA, the rise of the brony fandom and all the crazy ideas /b/ made a reality. /b/ would enter a massive conflict with the brony fandom as trolls flocked to their side and raided the entirety of the site. Modern 4chan takes further form when the concept of a general was born in /co/ and /v/, /vg/ is created to host /v/'s massive amount of generals, /pol/ is brandished as the new nazi troll capital of the Internet and becomes a potential successor for /b/, and /r/funny explodes in popularity and sparks the meme faces phenomenon, ruining memes forever. /b/ tries to trick the Internet with various schemes, poll raids and even successfully tricking Justin Bieber fans into shaving their heads.